# INDEX

- [INDEX](#index)
  - [CSS Modules](#css-modules)
    - [How it works](#how-it-works)
  - [Pros and Cons](#pros-and-cons)

---

## CSS Modules

CSS Modules is a tool that allows you to write vanilla CSS, and import it into a JS file.

> “CSS Modules” is a name for a very specific third-party project, not a built-in CSS feature for modules.

- CSS Modules are not specs or an implementation in the browser, but rather a process in a **build step** (with the help of `Webpack` or `Browserify`) that changes class names and selectors to be scoped (kinda like **namespaced**).

  - > `Browserify` lets you require(‘modules’) in the browser by bundling up all of your dependencies.

  - Our build step would then process both these things into new, separate `HTML` and `CSS` files, with a new string of characters replacing both the HTML class and the CSS selector class. Now the `HTML` and `CSS` generated by our build tool might look like this:

    ```html
    <!-- Before -->
    <h2 class="${styles.greeting}">Good Morning</h2>

    <!-- After -->
    <h2 class="_styles_greeting_344389">Good Morning</h2>
    ```

- CSS Modules is a great approach for making CSS locally scoped and for preventing naming clashes in medium to large projects.
- It creates a **unique namespace** for each class/style that you use in the component

- CSS Modules are often mixed with **PostCSS**, a plugin ecosystem for extending CSS in beneficial ways (`autoprefixing`, `transpiling`, etc). This can smooth out the experience a bit, but in my opinion, it still doesn't feel near as nice in a modern JS context as some of the other options.

---

### How it works

- **Step 1**: Create a new CSS file and write your styles as you normally would. but with adding `.module` to the file extension.

  ```css
  /* styles.module.css */
  .greeting {
    color: green;
  }
  ```

- **Step 2**: Import the CSS file into your JS file. and use the styles object to access the class names.

  ```jsx
  import styles from './styles.module.css';

  function Greeting() {
    return <h2 className={styles.greeting}>Good Morning</h2>;
  }
  ```

---

## Pros and Cons

- **Pros**:

  - Solves scoping and specificity! The `.greeting` class you write will be globally-unique, even if a different CSS file has a `.greeting` as well. If you were to console.log in the JS file, you'd see something like `.greeting-abc123`.
  - Feels like writing straight-up CSS, which can be nice and familiar
  - Offers a `composes` feature, to extend existing CSS classes

- **Cons**:
  - Doesn't really offer any modern convenience features, like **autoprefixing**
  - Hard to share data between CSS and JS
